To register our authorization server with our client web app,
in the application.yml file under security.oauth2 .client .registration,
we use the provider property.
We can give it a name,
then provide the endpoint details of the authorization server,
the authorization-uri where the client can redirect the user's browser
to begin the OAuth2 flow and get the access token,
the token-uri where the client can exchange the code for the access token,
userinfo-uri where the client can use the access token to get the user's claims,
user-name-attribute,
what claim returned by the userinfo can be used to uniquely identify the user,
like a username.
Notice all the provider URLs contain the context path we
configured in the auth server properties file.
Now that the provider is configured,
we need to provide the client metadata under security,
oauth2, client.
We give it a registration ID of crypto- portfolio,
then the details we configured when registering it with the
authorization server like the client-id,
secret, client-name, a more descriptive name,
which will appear in the default OAuth2 login page,
scope, redirect-uri, grant-type, authentication-method,
in this case basic.
This is how the client will send the client-id and secret to the token endpoint
when exchanging the authorization code for the access token.
Now Spring also supports form authentication where the
credentials are sent in the request body.
And finally, the provider.
We can now update our login.html page to add a link to login with
crypto-portfolio and remove the previous login form as our application
is no longer going to handle user credentials.
Next,
we'll take a peek under the covers to see all the moving parts and what made all this happen.